# Conclusion

SDN is a big development in the area of "new generation" networks, and it has the ability to extract the maximum out of the existing resources, along with operating under open standards, thus allowing end users to mix and match devices from different vendors. With so many options and so much flexibility, it should come as no surprise that the code base has to account for a variety of situations in an even greater variety of circumstances.

Being such a large codebase, and having so many moving parts, SDN has unfortunately not been able to handle security at a standard that would be expected of technology hailed as the next generation. With many security loopholes and numerous ways to attack the network (which is exacerbated by the design choice of a controller acting as a master to the "slave" components operating under it; it becomes truly essential to develop some sort of resistance to the many avenues a potential attacker can look to exploit.

With the power that SDN provides networks, it is possible to create a system which can support and safeguard an SDN network from attackers. Using a quintessential trait of SDN, i.e. manipulation of traffic, a firewall (which can have the characteristics of both, what are called "stateless" and "stateful" firewalls in traditional networking) can be created, which can be plugged into the system as and when desired. This firewall aims to work only as intended, with only the bare minimum functionality associated with it. This takes any guesswork out of the equation, and what remains is simply a fast, simple firewall, divided into modules to be plugged in for every specific threat the administrators aim to prevent. Whilst a fairly lofty goal, it is already in progress in the industry, and development is quite rapid.

The biggest "win" over adopting SDN would be to utilise its own policies to maintain its security and keep its integrity. A system that has likely catapulted networking to the next generation, it is essential to get an open-source, modular and functional firewall to keep it safe from malicious actors. With a focus on simplicity, we aim to program this firewall in Python, to make it portable and hackable as possible.
