# Background:

Classical networks have historically posed the problems of effective mass-management at a large scale. With the amount of man-power required to manage a large network, it was defined as a prudent objective to find an alternate means to work with computer networks. Enter SDN, a revolutionary networking technology, which completely changed the way the industry viewed computer networks. Even with how complexity and perceived esoteric lingo have affected resources allocated to a good, functioning network in major enterprises, SDN alleviates some of those problems. In essence, SDN aims to align computer networking with the same, seemingly holistic and influential standards that programming outfits utilise to maintain and provision their ever so complex infrastructure.

The reasons of adopting SDN go far beyond “ease”, and thus, without a much more nuanced approach, trying to explicate the discrimination of approach towards networks which are supposed to be functionally better, are lost on this report. However, there is one major point that every advocate of software will invariably agree with: no software is completely, in a truly well-rounded fashion, a perfectly malleable piece of seemingly arbitrary text which act as commands towards the multiple layers of complex, up-from-level 0 digital (and by definition, rules defined on the hardware beneath), secure. Thus, there will always be a need for securing software. Because, as something is made up from the ground, it’s flaws also stretch the fabric of its anticipated ground wide open, in their respective dimensions, abstracted away by code, on top of code, on top of more code. The problem is compounded daily, and thus, with a complex code-base as with the very base of SDN, security is a major, if not all-important factor towards deciding the fate of this very novel mechanism of handling a computer network (often in conjunction with other, peer networks with varying schemes of management).

# Motivation:

If SDN can bring better network management to the industry, why not use its very management acumen over networks to secure its own infrastructure? The most basic idea of a firewall is to prevent unauthorised access to devices/systems. The next logical step would be to protect the very system which created the firewall, with the aforementioned firewall. SDN, whilst a powerful mechanism to create and manage networks, is not without its security loopholes, and a modular and pluggable firewall is an essential component of its working.The attempt to build a simple implementation of a pluggable firewall for an SDN network is the leading force behind this project.

# Scope of the project:

This project aims to build a working firewall system to detect and prevent specific attacks which are prevalent against SDN systems. The scope of the project begins from the research on various attacks on SDN systems, the methods and logic to prevent such attacks, and then the implementation of these specific preventive measures in code (Python in this case).

# Brief:

The project is implemented on a platform made specifically for SDN, called mininet. This is a virtual platform, with the aim to virtualise the complete SDN stack from the ground up. This project aims to produce a proof of concept that a pluggable infrastructure can be used for implementing an SDN firewall, and that different modules can take over the responsibility for different threats. As this project matures, the final step will be to converge the different modules in tandem and create a system which will interlope with the existing network infrastructure, thus producing a seamless transition from activity, via transmission to security.
